{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 REPORT ON THE PAPER: \
\
"Weight adjusted discontinuous Galerkin methods: matrix-valued weights and elastic wave propagation in heterogeneous media" by Jesse Chan, submitted for publication in SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing. \
\
CONTENTS AND EVALUATION OF THE PAPER: \
\
This paper is well structured and written, and presents an interesting DG method, named WADG, for elastic wave propagation in heterogeneous media. Some comments are added on curvilinear meshes, but this point is not really developped. This work is strongly based on the submitted paper \
\
[1] Jesse Chan, Russell J Hewett, and T Warburton. Weight-adjusted discontinuous Galerkin methods: wave propagation in heterogeneous media. arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.01944, 2016. \
\
which, as mentionned by the author, deals with weight-adjusted approximations to weighted L2 inner products. Paired with a DG discretization, these approximations result in a low storage, provably stable, and high order accurate method for acoustic wave propagation in heterogeneous media with sub-element variations. This work [1] has not be yet published, so that [1] is not a final version and could still change (slightly or strongly) after a review process. In particular, page 9, the author cites "Theorem 5 in [1]" and "Theorem 3.1 in [1]" whose references can change. \
\
In fact, the submitted papers [1,2,20] with \
\
[2] Jesse Chan, Russell J Hewett, and T Warburton. Weight-adjusted discontinuous Galerkin methods: curvilinear meshes. \
arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.03836, 2016. \
\
[20] Jesse Chan and T Warburton. A short note on the penalty flux parameter for first order discontinuous Galerkin formulations. \
arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.00102, 2016. \
\
are cited and commented along the present work (to describe the method, its properties and good results obtained on acoutic wave propagation [1], on curvilinear meshes [2]...), and their results often used or extended for elastic wave propagation (the elastic wave formulation admits "a DG formulation based on penalty fluxes [20]" (page 4), for the analysis, for a spectral study in section 6.1 (page 15)...). \
\
In my opinion, the present work is interesting but is too strongly rely on [1,2,20] to deserve a publication in SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing. Moreover, I think the author should wait for the accepted versions of the submitted papers [1,2,20], before to use their results (or to cite/describe them).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb4 \strokec3 \
}